all righty welcome to another episode of
engineering talks my name is tyler van
der Hooven and I'm gonna be talking
today about a preset proposal for
turing-complete smart contracts for
Stellar precept simply means that this
is just some work that I've been doing
on a Stellar ecosystem proposal around
this idea of turing-complete contracts
and we're going to talk a lot about that
today obviously that's what the talk is
all about but it's important to kind of
reset your thinking a little bit we all
have an idea of what turing-complete or
smart contracts means I'm gonna try and
come into this without too much baggage
and explain what I mean a bit along the
way and I'm going to be using
aetherium as our comparison project
because most of us when we think of
smart contracts have etherium in mind so
this is not necessarily a competition
against etherium it's simply a
comparison of features that if this SEP
were accepted and used how would you how
you would accomplish similar sorts of
things that you could on etherium on on
Stellar and comparing the
functionalities and features that
aetherium offers with what this Turing
signing server SEP would allow you to
accomplish on Stellar so let's let's
dive in today's gonna be a bit technical
we're gonna go through Trent blazed
through these slides pretty quick and
then get into some examples and encode
but it will be a little bit longer
probably than we're used to for these
engineering talks to stick with me it is
quite interesting super excited I've
spent a lot of time thinking and working
on this problem myself as something that
I very much need in my own development
and I think would really benefit the
Stellar community at large all right so
the problem is if the room has market
dominance in an arena we're better
suited to serve namely Finance so we
have assets and the ability to have
assets as first-class citizens where
there
in an account but often times financial
architecture will be built in aetherium
in instances where oftentimes it would
be better to have that built in
Stellar's it's going to be faster
cheaper and you're going to have this
capabilities and functionalities that
are native in aetherium and you'll have
to kind of custom build that yourself
whereas in Stellar they will often be
built in kind of at the base layer so
our solution ears to appeal to aetherium
developers by bringing functional
feature parity and that's a key phrase
here functional feature parity this
isn't feature parity it's functional so
what you can accomplish in etherium
trying to allow that same type of
functionality in Stellar in the in the
financial arena and so the solution
there for me the product there for me I
guess is smart contracts now we have a
concept of smart contracts and seller
it's kind of using operations and this
nature of Stellar transactions you can
accomplish a lot of different things
atomically inside of a transaction so
you can have lots of different
operations that open things up and close
things off all within the same
transaction you don't have to do a bunch
of individual things and then who knows
what's going to happen inside because
lots of things can happen in a single
ledger you can accomplish a lot of very
intelligent smart things and by using
things like time bounds or pre assigned
transactions you can get away with a lot
of I would say complex big business
logic and we've sort of slapped some our
contracts on to that but in no way is
that what most of the world thinks of at
least most of the blockchain world
thinks of when they think of smart
contracts smart contracts as a concept
is very different than what we tend to
talk about when we talk about Stellar
smart contracts today so we're gonna be
moving away from what most of us think
of when we think of Stellar smart
contracts and moving much closer to what
aetherium means when it says smart
contracts so my definition is a smart
contract as the ecosystem understands it
so regardless of what wikipedia says the
smart contract is the way that smart
contract the word phrase is used as the
ecosystem at large the blockchain
ecosystem understands it is an arbitrary
turing-complete program it's
in complete programming executed on a
decentralized network for the purpose of
minimizing trust so you have this idea
of a program that has arbitrary
programming that does who knows what
that accomplishes some sort of goal and
that goal is better accomplished when
it's trust minimized or there isn't a
lot of third-party trust involved or
it's decentralized and this is this is
important to kind of for all of us to
agree even if you don't necessarily
agree with me on this that this is where
I'm coming from when I talk about the
smart contracts that I'm envisioning
through this SEP that I'm building is
this idea of trust minimize minimizing
trust so there will still be trust
involved there's always trust involved
it's just who and how much and what are
those parties that you're trusting and
then arbitrator and complete programming
the ability to do kind of any sort of
logic that you need to to to create some
sort of output instead you don't have
that Stellar is not turing-complete that
allows it to be very fast and flexible
in scale very quickly whereas an
aetherium those things are bundled
together where you have what we'll get
to in a minute the idea of transaction
creation creation and execution so what
does that really mean was this ecosystem
doing with smart contracts there are two
things when it comes to financial smart
contracts there's transaction creation
and transaction execution so building
blockchain mutations basically these are
the instructions for how I want to
change the ledger how I want to mutate
the existing state of the ledger or
blockchain by adding another block and
then also the transaction execution
which takes those instructions takes
those mutations and actually runs them
to perform the changes so you have the
instructions and the execution the
creation in the execution so we have
that right in Stellar and a theorem you
can both create transactions and execute
transactions both in Stellar and
aetherium so what's the big deal how how
is what's the problem well the problem
is decentralization
in Stellar there is no decentralized
transaction create
atheria m-- there is because in the
virtual machines that run aetherium
those are run all over the world anybody
that's running an ethereal node and
participating in the consensus the
transaction creation and execution both
happen in that process of arriving at
consensus whereas in Stellar only the
execution of the transaction the
creation of that transaction happens
outside of the execution so you sort of
give it very detailed in permissible
instructions and then send it to the
consensus protocol to actually execute
that in aetherium you send a very
minimum information and then both the
creation and execution because assets
are not first-class citizens you can
build a whole program that will handle
the kind of input that anybody might
send it and then the ledger for your
particular smart contract will be
updated so both of those things happen
the same time it would be one of the
reasons that if your iam is built the
way that it is and why some of the
reasons or ways that it differs from
something like Stellar which what I'm
going to get into that too deeply and I
honestly don't understand it perfectly
but with my new this set proposal that
I've been working on we're gonna look at
today we're looking at adding
decentralized transaction creation so
smart contracts do not execute this is
really important it very something is
very different than aetherium all that
on adding or proposing that we add
through this step is transact
decentralized transaction creation which
we will then tag on to the existing
architecture we already have within
Stellar the decentralized transaction
execution which would give us through
this what I'm tagging is SEP acts if we
add seller and this new sub X together
we get feature functional feature parity
with aetherium where we have
decentralized transaction creation and
decentralized transaction execution
which would be amazing
and we'll get to why hopefully maybe
some of your wheels are starting to turn
on what decentralized transaction
creation would allow us to do some of
the things that it would allow us to
accomplish which we cannot do now but
we'll we'll get into that so essentially
sub X is Turing signing servers
decentralized turing-complete
trying
action creation so a few weeks ago we
had a engineering talk on Sept 30 which
is the key recovery servers and we have
Federation servers as well so we have
this concept within solar ecosystem
proposals of external servers or
services which run to provide sort of
additional logic or additional
functionality common additional
functionality across the ecosystem and
so this would be an additional server
that would be running the individuals or
enterprises would run which would allow
this decentralized turing-complete
transaction creation where you have
these multiple parties running something
which will accomplish some goal in a
decentralized way so still the smart
contracts via sip X have three entities
they have users contract creators and
Turing server so some of these may be
blurred at times the line between the
two but they are distinct in the sense
that regardless of whether they end up
being the same entity or individual they
will be serving three separate purposes
so users submit transactions for final
execution the final there the final
interested party they have something
that they want to do something that they
want to accomplish and they interface
with touring servers but it's typically
transacting through a contract not the
Turing server so they'll be contracts
that users interact with and those
contracts are hosted on the Turing
servers so I will interact with a
contract which is hosted on multiple
turing servers and then there are
contract creators obviously who create
the contracts and either provide
services or just innocuous features so
we'll get to some of those in a minute
but a contract creator doesn't
necessarily have to be some sort of
service provider they can just build a
contract that anyone can implement and
use to provide some additional
decentralized functionality and so I
have a diagram here which is 100%
useless so we are going to break that
down user wants to interact with a
contract creator for the service
right there providing save users and
contract creators we have this concept
already today where you have some third
party that you're wanting to interact
with with your Stellar address whether
you're making a payment or you want to
provide some sort of functionality with
some sort of functionality of the
service providers offering and you have
a very one-to-one relationship you send
instructions or requests you interact
with their UI and they send you back
responses whether that sign this
transaction or add this trust line or
whatever that interaction might be it's
very much one-to-one and this is where
some of the issues are going to arrive
this is unacceptable as a requirement
oftentimes this will be fine but I think
it's not the right thing to say this is
the way it has to be right so it's
unacceptable as a requirement as it
leaves the user trusting a single entity
and a contract creator liable for a high
level of responsibility and involvement
and ultimately it's not decentralized
you could add more servers but
ultimately the contract creator is
controlling all of those servers and
decentralization like at its core is
mitigating trust or taking that trust
and splitting it amongst multiple
parties so that no one entity controls
everything we split that up to where
there's a level of trust because no one
entity is the single trusted entity and
so we are getting to that diagram I
showed a little bit before we get we
introduced if they're disinterested but
incentivized third party service the
Turing signing server which will act as
a permission request arbitrator between
users and contract creators to the
server we upload a strict specific
turing-complete program or smart
contract which will create transactions
they don't execute they create
transactions so the contract creator
will build a program which will create
outputs it's basically just in in this
in my case it's going to be a lambda
function but ultimately it's just an API
endpoint which when called takes an
input and then outputs a valid
transaction Stellar transaction and then
the Turing signing server as you can see
here stores contracts and holds keys and
those keys are seller keys which
sign for the transaction that the
contract generates and in Stellar we
have this concept the reason this works
or is valuable is because in Stellar we
have the concept of multi-sig where
you've got multiple signers which can be
added to accounts and can sign for any
transaction that's being originating or
originates from that account so if I
want to make a payment I can sign with
my key or I can sign with somebody
else's key if they've been added as a
signer to my account and so as we start
to we create this contract and we
uploaded to a turing signing server when
we upload it a signing key is sent back
to us and that signing key is what we
upload to our contract we add that
signature to our contract or we gave it
to our user to add to their accounts so
that we can sign for some action off of
off of their account now when we have
just one Turing signing server we're
going to see that doesn't get us any
improvements but it's the duplicity the
lots of Turing signing servers where we
start to see the power come out but this
allows for transactions and their
signatures to be generated following the
strictness of a codified contract rather
than the trust of a contract creator
entity and this is this is the big point
here that's may seem a little bit
abstract but it's it's really powerful
because if I want to if I want to do
something let's say I want under very
strict specific circumstances I want you
to be able to use my account to pay
yourself a hundred dollars you know if
if some parameter is met I can't ever
give you my secret key because if I give
you that you can do much much more than
just pay yourself a hundred dollars so
how can I give you access to my account
without giving you complete access to my
account it's only strict specific
turing-complete access to my account
well I get that through this contract
creation where I upload a contract to a
Turing signing server and then you
interact with that Turing signing server
and rather than you having access to the
secret seed you have access to only
perfectly signed transactions from those
turning signing servers so I don't give
you a secret key I give you signed
transactions through these Turing
signing servers and then you can
interact with the Turing signing servers
rather than directly with my account and
that's that's kind of one example but
hopefully that starts to make sense
so the reason this becomes or how this
becomes decentralized is we upload these
contracts to lots of different Turing
signing servers so it's the same
contract across lots of different Turing
signing servers and then through
thresholds right so we're out of T
signers multi-sig to accounts but each
of those can have a threshold so I can
say to make a payment you need a
threshold of three so I need at least a
weight of three to be able to make a
payment and so when I upload all this
same contract all of these turns signing
servers they all send me back a key
which I add to my account as signers but
only with a weight of one so that no one
turing signing server not even two
turing signing servers could sign for or
collude to do something with my account
you would need at least three and
through thresholds you can add any
number of i guess up to 20 thresholds to
number of I guess up to 20 thresholds to
agree very complex secure logic to
account for whatever kind of logic
you're trying to perform with your
contract but essentially you're just
going to upload this to a number of
turing signing servers and then through
thresholds decide how many of those
turing signing servers need to add their
signature to the transaction that's
being requested and because it's the
same contract it's producing the same
transaction the same XDR and if any one
of these gets a little sneaky and tries
to you know make a payment to themself
they would change the XDR and therefore
the signature for all the other turing
signing servers would be invalid if the
requests that the user is making to the
turning signing servers is different
than any of the others it will be
rejected
it'll be spat out because it doesn't
match any of the others and the
signature therefore would be invalid
when it finally comes to submission time
and so now the contract creator is a
nonentity
they no longer really interact with the
user the user interacts directly with
the Turing signing server so contract
creators don't even need to at this
point run a server they just uploaded
some arbitrary JavaScript logic or
really any programming logic language
logic to these Turing signing servers
and so long as it's valid and producing
good transactions and being used and not
being nefarious the user can interact
with Turing signing servers completely
separate from the contract creator in a
decentralized manner getting
transactions which follow the pattern
that the contract creator allowed for
because they've added their signature to
it and in this case following our
example before the user can begin
interacting and making payments to
themselves for $100 so long as it
follows the pattern that the contract
creator allowed for so hopefully it's
starting to make sense
turning signing servers allow for secure
decentralized transaction creation and
signing through programmable contracts
so again we need to we need to remember
that Turing signing servers their goal
is to create transactions not to submit
them so they they perform the business
of creating a valid signed transaction
and that signing doesn't have to be and
often I would say is not complete it's
partial signing it's signing for some of
the logic of the transaction that was
performed but there's probably should be
some piece that's left to the user
whether that's paying the base fee
whether that's in a you know a vending
machine example you have to pay a
hundred lumens to get a hundred of your
asset back like Ana ICO model or some
sort of token giveaway or there's lots
of different instances where you're the
user is going to be the final signer and
so the transaction that comes back is
signed and it's signed enough for all
the interaction that deals with the
contract creators account but there's
still some piece that's left for the
user account so it's just adding
signatures to a transaction but not
necessarily fully signed although that
obviously could be again the business
logic appears in the contract not in the
XDR
itself not in the Stellar transaction
itself so you can create all kinds of
business logic that produces a
transaction at the end of the day that
could be any sort of thing and that's
kind of what we're gonna look look
through here now so again like the motto
for this is you get what you permit so
when you start talking about could I do
this or could this be used in this case
the answer is going to long as is
related to like seller transactions and
getting a payment and kind of really
getting access to your account through a
secure contract like so long as that's
the question the answer is yes because
so long as you create the right
permissions it's you can allow for it
you can build for something like that
amazing the houses compared to etherium
smart contracts will just look through
this really quick so now with this FX
would have along with the 3m
decentralized transaction creation and
decentralized transaction execution and
then the difference here arguably is
going to be again the safety over
liveness that we have within the
selection since it's protocol versus if
you're in virtual machines anyway where
the safety aspect to the contract
control is it's just creating
transactions it's not actually executing
them and so you don't have to
necessarily worry about your accounts or
about the safety of your account so long
as you've built your contract correctly
and then the liveness aspect of it is
going to come down to how well did you
write your contract is your account
funded all the things that are already
limitations just within Stellar versus
the ethereal model which is once you
upload a contract there's nothing you
can do to really alter that because both
transaction creation and execution are
happening at the same time but that
contract will always exist it will
always be up unless you have some of
those non decentralized back doors open
so some of the core philosophical design
differences Stellar smart contracts
nothing unacceptable can happen in a
favor smart contracts nothing unexpected
can happen and there's benefits on both
sides really depends on what you're
trying to build for those Stellar smart
contracts because that is just
generating a transaction the final
execution is in the hands of
whoever the final user is whereas in
aetherium smart contracts the final
execution is in the hands of the
contract so you you execute it hoping
that it does what you expect whereas
with a social on card track you execute
it and then it spits out a final
transaction which you have a final say
and whether or not you want to submit it
so finally the thing that we were all
looking forward to examples and I think
yes that is pretty much my last slide
I'm going to switch now to my browser
I'm going to open I've got some glitch
demos here so fantastic little service
here glitch and I'm going to open up all
of these examples and then make this a
little bit bigger so the first one I'd
like to look at is a very basic kind of
run-of-the-mill vending machine example
so when we talk about smart contracts
vending machines kind of a really good
starting point where you give it an
input and it gives a guaranteed output
so in this case we're running a Tyler
coin trade or swap where you send in a
hundred lumens and you get a hundred
Tyler coin back or it's always a
one-to-one so if you did 50 it'd be 50
if you'd tend to be 10 so I've got an
account here so if I can open this I've
got an account here which I am making a
payment tune and this is just a standard
seller account that I've funded with
friend bot there's nothing fancy that's
been added to this there's a contract
though that I've uploaded that says all
the logic around when a transaction come
or when a request comes in to this
contract take a hundred lumens make a
operation for taking a hundred lumens
from this account and then send it ten
all right send it ten top corner 100 for
101 to one and so we'll give it that
hundred and then we'll generate the XDR
so let me just pop in the code for this
real quick
we make that a little bigger so this
would be our vending machine smart
contract so essentially there's a
contract that says when a request comes
in and it has source and amount we're
just going to build a Stellar
transaction and then spit out the xgr
and that's going to be a payment for 100
lumens to me and then send back tot it
going to the source account which is the
account that we add right here and then
it also adds the fee payment to the
turrets so to the Turing signing servers
so Turing signing servers again I
mentioned that they are disinterested
but incentivize third parties they have
no benefit to get from collusion but
they have benefit to get from collecting
on fees so if you run a Turing signing
server you can charge fees to execute
these contracts as well as upload
contracts so transact servers have a
business opportunity but they're just
interested in the sense that they don't
care what contracts are being run so
this is a very I mean 57 lines of code
plus comments so very very small little
contract but it does allow arbitrary
logic and it allows me to safely say I
can run an entire contract here of
paying out my Tyler coin in exchange for
xlm all through just this very basic
JavaScript code so I'm going to upload
this when I upload this contract to a
Turing signing server they are going to
send back a signing key because this is
the account this is the contract address
that is going to be paying out Tyler
coin if we look this up in still our
experts on the test net we will see the
windows condemn when we upload it to the
Turing signing servers they send back
signing keys and those signing keys are
what we add to this contract to allow
for these contracts to actually generate
signed transactions because the Turing
signing server is going to generate an
XDR and then add a signature using
whichever signing key they have for that
contract and then we have a threshold of
three like I mentioned before so if
three so long as three addresses sign
off on this any any transactions coming
from this contract we can generate a
valid signature and the execution the
transaction will go through in this case
paying out toilet claim so let's go back
here and generate that xtr that generate
XE our button is going to call the
Turing signing servers it's going to say
hey this account would like to generate
an ex TR and it looks like we have got a
beautiful error so you know so is the
way it goes
but essentially what would have happened
if it had worked would be the the
contract goes out to all of those
different addresses all those different
Turing signing server sends back the
same XDR with the signature the
signatures get added to the transaction
that comes in we add our final signature
to the ex TR to the transaction and then
we can submit it right so we have to we
have we have this account we would have
to sign for for that hundred lumen
payment it pays out the hundred lumens
and then the signatures that we received
from the Turing signing servers for the
Tyler coin are all valid all the
signatures are there we can make this
relatively complex payment all through a
very simple Turing signing server smart
contract so that would be our vending
machine example the next one would be
let's do this weather coin so this one
kind of showcases but I would call
Oracle eyes data but really it's just
taking a third party API and using that
information to generate a transactions a
different transaction or our variable
transaction so in this case we are using
the dark sky API we are looking up the
weather at my current location and if
it's raining we are going to generate a
transaction for rain coin and if it's
sunny outside we're gonna generate a
transaction that pays out Sun coin and
so again we need the same address when I
upload this the same thing happens each
sharing sighting server sends back a
different a new signing key we had that
signing key to the contract
and then the contract when we call it
will generate signatures for this
particular transaction so hopefully this
one will work it's not raining at my
house at the moment so unfortunately you
can't get a any rain coin so in this
case it's looking it up and it's saying
because it's raining we're not going to
be able to get any any rain coin so if
it was raining you'd be able to get rain
coin but because it's not theirs
I think there's logic actually running
in the glitch app which says if it's not
raining don't generate the XDR so maybe
a little bit of a letdown but still you
can provide arbitrary logic to say
because it's not raining in my house
right now we're going to spit out and
reject this transaction which is really
cool because you allow that logic to say
I'm going to give away like usage of my
account but only under certain
parameters and in this case it's an
arbitrary third party API which is
providing the information that's as well
it's not raining and so because it's not
raining we're not going to generate a
transaction we're not going to add a
signature for it
we're throwing that out which is which
is cool the next one would be the filter
smart contract and this one's actually a
little bit different because instead of
adding signatures to a contract address
we're actually adding signatures to an
account to a user's account and this is
one of those examples where a contract
the ones we've looked at so far have
been sort of third party services so
somebody's actually trying to run a
business off of smart contracts in this
case somebody just created a random you
know open source smart contract which
provides filtering functionality and so
maybe I have an account that I want to
give access to someone for but only if
they're xlm payments are below a hundred
lumens so I've made a filter smart
contract here which basically says when
a transaction comes in so the input here
is actually in xtr so we're going to
generate a Steller's transaction which
has to have just one operation which is
a payment and it has to be an amount
that is less than 100
because if it's great greater than 100
lumens the request will be rejected but
in this case we actually want to attach
this contract to a user's account not to
a contract account so there isn't really
a contract address here somebody's just
created this contract and says hey I'm
gonna upload this and if you would like
to use it if you would like to get this
filtering functionality for your account
then you just need to add the signing
keys to your address so if we take this
xtr here which is a valid example we can
look up the account that it's attached
to so we've added the signing keys to
this account and right now there's just
two so we've uploaded this contract to
tutoring servers taking their signing
keys and attach them to our account we
have a threshold of 3 which means we
need all three of these both turning
signing servers and then our own TFI
signing key to sign off on and then we
kind of have this escape base64 or
sha-256 hash that if something terrible
happens and we need to rescue this
account we kind of have that in our back
pocket that's not a turning signing
server thing that's just good practice
if you've kind of locked out your
account to yourself but anyway sharing
signing servers are going to sign for
two so by themselves these turning
saying servers can't do anything there's
no collusion capability possibility
because at most they would only have a
weight of two which isn't enough to do
anything they would they would need that
final signer my sign my signature to
actually do anything so however I can't
also by myself do anything this account
is useless on its own it needs those
other tutoring signing servers to
actually accomplish anything and those
turning signing servers are locked in to
only signing for this which is that the
transaction is greater than or is less
than 100 limits so if we go back here we
can see this payment is for 100 xlm so
if we go and we generate the xtr on this
all of my examples are
today this is not fantastic and we try
the invalid one it works it doesn't it
filters a transaction here looks like
this one's not working I think I may
have uploaded the beta X beta
let me look real quick at the contract
address and make sure I'm actually using
the right contractors because this one
is kind of cool so we edit our project
real quick in our JavaScript know it's
got the right one yeah who knows
probably shouldn't have fooled with it
too much before before doing the demo
but anyway if you had a valid example
which we this is valid X er but looks
like something's up with my Turing
signing servers this would be valid it
would be signed you could view it in the
laboratory and then submit the
transaction to the network so long as it
was under that hundred one more example
here this on glitch is our hourly wager
demo so I play video games occasionally
and on Fridays will do wager pools so
maybe like you know 10 lumens or 20
bucks or something like that and there
that all gets pulled together and
whoever wins the game
gets the gets the pool you could also
see it as a donation pool where or even
like a Kickstarter or something where if
if balance reaches over a certain
threshold and the money's released
there's lots of different smart contract
logic that comes through these types of
functionalities but you don't want a
single entity holding all those funds
with the risk that they could run away
and so you might add multiple human
signers to that but if one of them gets
bitter and doesn't want to do the thing
that you you know I go you cheated and
it's I'm not going to sign off on this
transaction where you could run it to
issues when you have those human
variables but if it's just machines and
they're just following contract logic
you remove that layer that risk
and do the the perform that trust
minimized aspect of things which is
really what we're after and what turning
signing servers exists for and so in
this case you have a contract address
which has the Turing sang service been
uploaded to all of the turning signing
servers with threshold of three again so
you need at least three of these Turing
signing servers and then individuals
will start to pay this account you can
see the payments coming into this
account into the wager pool and then in
this case every hour the contract will
go through you'll be able to generate an
xgr which will pick at random one of
these individuals as the winner and
payout the pool
payout the pool to them so again if we
go to our arrow the wager contract it's
a little bit longer contract but not
really still 100 lines where it takes
into account the operations for this
contract account looking at the payments
and then we'll randomly select one of
those as a winner every hour so those
are examples in that case again you
upload the signers in this case to the
contract like we did before the last one
that I think is really interesting is a
recurring revenue model so one of the
issues right now with recurring revenue
models on Stellar is that you have to
pre sign loads of transactions and kind
of bump sequence numbers and it gets
quite hairy when it actually comes time
to execute those as they have to give to
pre sign loads of transactions
especially if it's like shorter terms on
weekly or monthly basis and you have a
lot of these transactions just kind of
sitting around hoping that they'll be
valid valid whenever it comes time to
submit them with Turing signing servers
you can create a contract which takes
into account when a payment when a
payment was last made and for how much
it was when it was made all the
information around the actual payment
and then if it's time if it's been a
month since the last payment you can
make another payment and so essentially
you would create this transaction much
like the filter transaction or much like
the filter contract you upload this
contract add the signers to a user
account but
those signers can only sign through this
contract and so if it's been a month
since the last payment was made you can
call this contract and it will generate
a transaction which makes a thousand
lumen payment but as soon as you submit
that to the network it's and you try and
call it again and say hey I just want to
keep collecting thousands of lumens from
this account it's going to say hey it
hasn't been a month since the last time
we ran since we ran this contract so in
that case you don't have to have any pre
signed transactions you simply wait
until the time comes you generate the
transaction and you can actually
generate it and submit it through some
sort of third-party service the user
wouldn't necessarily ever have to know
other than they would still have
ownership over their account and if at
any point in the future they wanted to
cancel their subscription they would
simply remove your turning signing
signers from their account and any calls
to that account to make a payment would
fail because the user removed this
turning signing server signers from
their account so I think if this account
still exists we could actually look at
the signers that have been added for
this account it looks like I saw on that
one I think it's actually yeah so we've
got the two signers here but then it's
also got a threshold of two so while we
need both turning signing servers to
generate that recurring payment every
month if at any point the user wants to
remove those signers they're able to do
that because they have a weight of two
set on their operation threshold so
that's been a basic overview of what I
have so far on turning signing servers
it's still a work in progress obviously
if that's something that seems
interesting to you and hopefully it does
I am looking for more people to get
involved on actually building out smart
contracts so I have quite a few turing
signing servers just tests that turn
signing server set up they're ready to
be used
ready for people to poker
and see what's possible hopefully some
of these examples have gotten your
wheels turning but now is kind of the
announcement for that we need some
people to start using this thing to
start poking it around to see if this
makes sense as a septa see if we built
the right thing and then towards the as
that sort of happens and we sort of get
a better idea of what this should be and
how it works and doesn't work and what
kind of contracts can be built using
this we'll move into the actual draft
the SCP draft portion where we write it
all up we have the API endpoints we
showcase how to build one of these
servers and run it successfully and all
the fees around it and how to generate
revenue how to run a secure turning to a
server but also how to create good
contracts and then hopefully we can get
it to an active state where it starts to
be used more and becomes a normal sort
of used active seller ecosystem proposal
within the ecosystem where these Streng
signing servers become possible where
anybody can spin up a contract and
upload it to a plethora of turing
signing servers and then beyond that
it's just the acceptance of it and it
becomes a normal part of Stellar
development alright so that was long
apologize for that apologize that the
demos didn't work out great hopefully
we'll have those back up and running so
that everybody can play around with what
we have so far should have that within
the next couple of days and linked on
the youtube let's go for questions I
hope there's a couple of questions that
you guys have for me as things pop up
and I will begin to answer those and
then we'll and then we'll close out but
as you have questions for me feel free
to type them into into the chat and
we'll walk through them otherwise you
can find me on Twitter and key base at T
y VD H I would love to chat all right
how is this relevant for cross-border
payments where does this fit in
decentralized finance well you kind of
set it there in decentralized finance a
lot of its going to boil down to what
you mean by decentralized everybody kind
of has their own idea of what
decentralized means and when it comes to
things like D central
payments for cross-border payments or
decentralized finance for cross-border
payments it's gonna come down to like
who's in charge who's in control and
what what are the differences what
layer's do you have when you're talking
about ownership so in the case of an
anchor for example and wanting to
facilitate payments being made in and
out of the ecosystem or putting up
offers on the order book to maintain
liquidity between assets right now all
of that stun and a completely
centralized way where an entity controls
their order books and so long as those
orders are out there they're free to
take them down and when you have these
cross-border payments moving back and
forth that can become an issue if a
large portion of the success happens on
one entity maintaining liquidity so it
would be possible that a liquidity
provider could create a smart contract
that creates order books that are
decentralized where they don't have the
ability to alter or remove the orders
that it just runs the liquidity and
doesn't remove itself doesn't have a
capability to remove itself so a lot of
it has to do I think with removing
barriers towards trust and this is
actually kind of interesting because
that's one of the biggest barriers when
doing cross-border payments is do I
trust them are they going to do what I
expect them to do by using turning
signing servers are really by adding
decentralization or trust minimization
into your workflow into your business
logic you're able to guarantee some
level of trust because you relinquish
some portion of control whether that's
liquidity providing or making good on
payments the more that you can guarantee
through math that something is going to
happen versus guaranteeing through
goodwill or I have a good business plan
I've done this in the past the better
off you're going to be when it comes to
winning people's trust like it's going
to become true more and more as other
businesses do that and say you don't
trust us you verify through the code
that we've written that we don't
ultimately control weave or link which
control of our secret key our ability to
alter the state of the ledger to these
transient servers which ultimately own
the contract they run the contract
through users interacting with it so in
that sense depending on how it's
implemented and at what level it makes
sense for
a company to add in trust minimization
to their business logic
pterence and insurers will be useful for
cross-border payments or decentralized
finance but a lot of it again is going
to ultimately boil down to what is
decentralization mean and is that
actually helpful
when it comes to trust minimization or
making payments across borders is SCF
going to run a turn signing server who
runs strange signing servers without any
incentive I don't think SDF is going to
reconcile you server I mean I run a
couple right now just as as testing
demos but yeah there is tons of
incentive to run a tutoring center we
didn't talk a whole lot about fees or
uploading contract fees but that's a big
part of running a churning signing
server it would be kind of a separate
talk - what is it like to run a turning
sign server but you can charge excellent
fees so basically part of the XDR when
transcending server spits out a
transaction part of that transaction is
payments to the turn sending servers so
those are these small fees paid out to
the Turing signing service as well as
fees for actually uploading a contract
so it might be ten or a hundred lumens
or five USD to upload a contract to a
turing signing server so there's both
the incentive for people to upload
contracts but also to run good
Turrentine servers so that you can
continue to collect on fees as cheering
sighing servers are executing smart
contracts don't understand why you need
signed transactions with other party
when you share your sign transactional
attorneys sensor owner of training
center to execute your contract only if
that Turing something let me read the
question I really don't understand why
you need Turing signing servers to share
signed transactions with other party
when you share your sign transaction
with Turing signing server owner of
Turing signing server can execute your
contract signed transaction to attack
you again that's only if you allow that
how did you write your contract because
you some turing some contracts may
accept a incoming XDR but it's not it
doesn't have to be a signed transaction
that's coming in it's just instructions
or it's just a Turing it's just a
contract it's just a
that's been submitted to a jury in
signing server but it doesn't have any
signatures on it yet and if you write
your turn signing server contract in
such a way that the output is a
partially signed transaction so not full
where you still need to sign for the
source account you still need to sign
for those fees maybe but there's still
another signature that's needed the the
transaction is only partially signed
it's not Val viable to submit to the
network yet so what someone yeah a lot
of it is gonna boil down to trusting all
of the Turing signing servers together
but you already trust that with the way
the seller consensus protocol works
where you trust the individual nodes
that are running Stellar so this idea of
disinterested but incentivized third
parties is quite strong and it has been
proven to work quite well so ultimately
it boils down to again you get what you
permit and if you allow for the
generation of a transaction that is
completely signed and valid then yes the
turning signing server could submit that
but even that isn't necessarily an issue
unless they're submitting something that
you don't want them to submit it
ultimately depends on what that
transaction does what that transaction
accomplishes but because you're
splitting up your secret key between
lots of different during signing servers
any single one probably shouldn't unless
you've allowed for it be able to do
anything on their own they would need to
they would need to collude with other
turing signing servers to actually
accomplish anything dangerous so what's
the difference between sharing your
signed transactions contracts with
Turing signing server over traditional
servers the only difference is they
aren't their traditional servers just
operating as turned sending servers
ultimately it boils down to two owns the
turing psychic servers because if you
own them there's not two centralization
there but if some other entity owns
those some other entity is running those
so long as again you're uploading it to
multiples of those you're running sort
of a it's not a clone but it's similar
to how Stellar works already where SDF
and lobster
coin quest all run validator nodes and
you submit a transaction to their
network and they validate the
transactions and perform the operations
within those transactions this is kind
of the same thing where you have a
secret key which is split up amongst
lots of different servers and those
servers then add their signature to any
transactions coming from the contract
and so long as it's valid and it's all
the same and it's a valid signature it
can be submitted to the Stellar network
how would you see this use for
subscriptions like you mentioned before
also does this support more than just
JavaScript so I gave an example on the
subscription model ultimately you would
just have contracts that were built for
different amounts or it could maybe take
variable amounts I haven't thought too
deeply about exactly how would we use my
purpose isn't to be too stringent on how
it should be used and more provide a
platform that works and then allow other
people to build on top of that so you
kind of would have to think ok if I can
either get ownership over someone's
account but in a very controlled way
through contracts only through contracts
or I can give ownership to my account
but only through strict contracts what
does that allow for what are the
capabilities there and then there's
there's tons of them and subscriptions
would be one of those with fee bumps I
don't know I will be interesting to see
if fee bums kind of gets rid of the
issue with recurring revenue since you
can pay sequence numbers and fees from
different accounts now so some of the
issues we had there may already be gone
I haven't looked into that too deeply
but when it comes to complicated or
turing-complete recurring revenue models
or you need to do much more beyond just
paying fees and sequence numbers you
actually need to do some some logic
external logic or taking accounts of the
person's account you know like refunds
or oh they partially paid and now we
have to perform some logic around some
sort of partial payment or upgrades and
you know more strike like functionality
then you could use something like this
to accomplish that through because
the turn signing server or smart
contract logic and again you don't do
you need to do that
I don't know that depends on how much
your users need and value a
decentralized option for something like
this or a decentralized option and maybe
they do maybe they don't that ultimately
is up to the users and what they expect
out at the services that they're that
they're making use of all right do we
have any other questions those were good
questions and again this isn't this
isn't set in stone this is this is very
good discussion and we don't want to
spend our time doing the wrong thing but
at the same time all you have to do is
spend a little time looking at aetherium
to realize that smart contracts and
turing-complete smart contracts is a
very powerful tool that is very valuable
and I think it's worth taking a look at
is there opportunity doesn't make sense
for us to include some sort of
functionality like this functional
feature parity that would allow for
decentralized transaction creation where
you don't have to trust the person who's
creating the transaction you can you can
mitigate that you can relegate that
through other parties all right
SuperDuper I appreciate everyone hanging
out again feel free to reach out on key
base or Twitter with follow up questions
I'll try and get working links to these
demos as well as some API Doc's for
people to poke around if you want to get
involved building these things or
testing it out be sure and reach on them
you know thanks again or for coming out
and we'll catch y'all later bye
you